1) In both datasets, both years seem to have a fairly strong inverse linear relationship or put simply, the lower the birth rate, the 
higher the life expectancy and vice versa. This seems to suggest a causal relationship, however correlation does not neccessarily 
equal causation and there are likely many factors at play here such as education, cultural norms, access to medical care etc. 

On the whole, the life expectancy has increased and the birth rate has decreased for all countries from 1953 to 2008, most likely
due to the advancements made in modern medicine and social norms surrounding having children changing over the decades. This can also 
be seen when we see that the cluster with the lowest life expectancy (cluster 2) has both decreased in size, increased in mean life
expectancy and decreased in mean birth rate over time. Countries have also jumped clusters in the 55 year timespan with some
jumping up a cluster and others moving down. 

Cluster 1 represents the countries with the highest life expectancy and lowest birth rate
Cluster 2 represents the countries with the lowest life expectancy and highest birth rate
Cluster 3 represents the countries in between

Countries that joined a higher life expectancy bracket include (but are not limited to):
- Albania (moved from cluster 3 to cluster 1)
- Aruba (moved from cluster 3 to cluster 1)
- Bahrain (moved from cluster 2 to cluster 1)
- Belize (moved from cluster 3 to cluster 1)
- China (moved from cluster 2 to cluster 1)
- Costa Rica (moved from cluster 3 to cluster 1)

Countries that have joined a lower life expectancy bracket include (but are not limited to):
- Azerbaijan (moved from cluster 1 to cluster 3)
- Democratic republic of Korea (moved from cluster 1 to cluster 3)
- Jamaica (moved from cluster 1 to cluster 3)

On the whole, there have mostly been improvements over the years with a few outliers.

2) When we run the dataset for both years with 4 clusters instead of 3, we note the following:

Cluster 1 represents the countries with the lowest life expectancy and highest birth rate
Cluster 2 represents the countries with the highest life expectancy (but not the lowest birth rate)
Cluster 3 represents the countries with the second lowest life expectancy, but the second lowest birth rate
Cluster 4 represents the countries with the second highest life expectancy and the lowest birth rate

This seems to suggest as stated above, that the two in fact do not have a causal relationship as the cluster with the highest
life expectancy also has the second highest birth rate when we use 4 clusters.

When we look at cluster 1 which has the lowest life expectancy, we see majority 1953 countries with a few 2008 countries including 
Angola, Cameroon, Kenya, Rwanda etc. Possible reasons for the fact that these countries still have lower life expectancies include, but
are not limited to:
- Disease is a big factor in life expectancy rates. For example, many of these countries are situated in Africa which was hit the 
  hardest in the world with regards to HIV/AIDS. This disease has claimed many lives in Africa and has contributed to the lower life 
  expectancy as a result In the same way, Malaria has also contributed to the lower life expectancy.
- Another factor is political/civil unrest. For example Rwanda's life expectancy was likely worsened by the genocide that they 
  experienced or the continuous warfare experienced in Afghanistan.
- Malnutrition/hunger is also a big factor with Chad being the most affected country in the world.

It is however important to note that life expectancies in these countries have increased rather dramatically since 1953 (as we can
see when we look at the 2008 data). The mean is however heavily skewed downward by the overwhelming 1953 data.


When we look at cluster 2 which has the highest life expectancy, we see majority 2008 countries with a few 1953 countries including
Canada, Iceland and Malta. Possible reasons for this include.
- Access to healthcare. For example, in Canada health care is largely subsidised by the government meaning that citizens live longer
  on the whole as their access to treatment is not necessarily based on their wealth which is not true for most countries.
- Although it may sound trivial, diet can play a factor. For example, studies have shown that eating less red meat can lead
  to longer life and the diets of most Icelanders consists mainly of fish and less meat.
- Environmental facors such as clean air and water also play a part in why Canadians and Icelandic people have such a high 
  life expectancy

References:
https://www.statista.com/statistics/269924/countries-most-affected-by-hunger-in-the-world-according-to-world-hunger-index/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afghanistan
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-39410236
https://borgenproject.org/10-facts-about-life-expectancy-in-iceland/